---
layout: post
title: Goals
---

My wife and I have always disagreed on the idea of goals. She is very against setting goals in general, saying that they lead to too much stress and pressure. I am very much the opposite. Goals inspire me. They make me work harder. A few years back I was trying to get into running and, at a time when I could barely run a few miles without stopping, I set a goal of running a marathon. Without that goal, I probably would have given up on the whole running thing in general after a particularly bad day, but the idea of completing 26.2 miles pushed me on. I did accomplish that goal, however painful it may have been…

With all of that said, it seems only right that I should set goals related to my software development education and career. In terms of education, Bloc makes goal setting easy. I have a certain number of checkpoints and assignments to complete each week (and for a goal-motivated guy like me, there’s nothing more satisfying than checking these off).  I want to master the material given to me and work hard to supplement it with my own research and side projects. Most of all, I don’t want to let my mentor or myself down.

In terms of a career, my goals probably sound like anyone else’s. I want to do something that I find interesting and intellectually challenging. I want to work in a field where I can advance and push myself to new levels. And, of course, I want to make enough money to provide a good life for my daughter. 

As I move deeper into Bloc’s curriculum, I look forward to seeing what inspires me so that I can add new elements to my career goals. The marathon takes a lot of work and sometimes a lot of pain, but in the end it’s worth it.