---
layout: post
title: My Bloc Experience
---

I’ve always learned well on my own. In college, I took in information much better on my own in the library, pouring over books and other materials than I did sitting in the classroom. This, in part, is why I decided to attend my current software development bootcamp, Bloc. The curriculum is fully online, allowing me to set my own schedule during the week. It allows me to dig deeper into the subjects that don’t quite click right away and to move quickly through those that come more easily. Of course, there are other, even more important reasons why this is the best fit for me. My wife works a random schedule as a nurse, and Bloc’s online curriculum allows me to take off days when she’s at work to look after our 8-month-old daughter Iris. Honestly, there’s nothing better than that.

I was definitely nervous about starting the yearlong program. I had done a lot of pre-work on my own, familiarizing myself with the basics of HTML/CSS, JavaScript and Ruby. Even so, a career change is always an intimidating prospect. Would I be a week in and find myself way over my head? Would I just be nodding along as my mentor spoke in what sounded like a foreign language? Needless to say, my fears were put to rest after my first meeting with my mentor. He showed at every meeting an ability to simplify problems that seemed ridiculously complicated at first glance. The mentorship truly rounds out the independent learning style at Bloc. You do as much as you can, but when you get stuck, you know that you have someone to pull you out.  In other words, it’s my ideal learning environment.

So far, I have completed frontend-programming fundamentals, which dives into HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery. Now, I’m heading into some frontend projects before moving into backend and, eventually, principles of software engineering. If you’re currently trying to teach yourself programming, I’d honestly recommend looking into Bloc. It will kickstart your learning and provide you the safety net of a mentor for when you get stuck or just plain frustrated.